Add information on water usage tracking (#24761)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_docs/energy/water.markdown

Although water is not strictly "energy", it is still a valuable resource to track and monitor as it is often tightly coupled with energy usage (like gas). Additionally, it can help you reduce your ecological footprint by using less water. 

## Hardware

Home Assistant will need to know the amount of water that is being consumed in order to be able to track it. Several hardware options are available to do this.

We have the following integrations available for existing products that can provide information about water usage:

- [Flo](/integrations/flo)
- [Flume](/integrations/flume)
- [HomeWizard Energy](/integrations/homewizard)

Alternatively, the following shops sell ESPHome-based devices, that use a proximity sensor to detect a rotating magnet in your water meter and use that pulse to count each liter of water used.

- [S0tool](https://huizebruin.github.io/s0tool/) ("Made for ESPHome" approved)
- [Waterlezer dongle](https://smart-stuff.nl/product/esphome-waterlezer-dongle/) (Dutch)
- [Slimme Watermeter Gateway](https://smartgateways.nl/product/slimme-watermeter-gateway/) (Dutch)
- [watermeterkit.nl](https://watermeterkit.nl/) (Dutch)

> Maybe you like to build one yourself? Pieter Brinkman has quite a [nice blog article on how to creator your own water sensor](https://www.pieterbrinkman.com/2022/02/02/build-a-cheap-water-usage-sensor-using-esphome-home-assistant-and-a-proximity-sensor/) using ESPHome, or [built a water meter](https://www.ztatz.nl/p1-monitor-watermeter/) that works with the [P1 Monitor](/integrations/p1_monitor) integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maybe you like to build one yourself? Pieter Brinkman has quite a [nice blog article on how to create your own water sensor](https://www.pieterbrinkman.com/2022/02/02/build-a-cheap-water-usage-sensor-using-esphome-home-assistant-and-a-proximity-sensor/) using ESPHome, or [build a water meter](https://www.ztatz.nl/p1-monitor-watermeter/) that works with the [P1 Monitor](/integrations/p1_monitor) integration.
```

---
title: "Integrating your water usage"
description: "Learn how to add information about your water usage to Home Assistant home energy management."
---

Home Assistant allows you to track your water usage in the home energy management too.

Although water is not strictly "energy", it is still a valuable resource to track and monitor as it is often tightly coupled with energy usage (like gas). Additionally, it can help you reduce your ecological footprint by using less water. 

## Hardware

Home Assistant will need to know the amount of water that is being consumed in order to be able to track it. Several hardware options are available to do this.

We have the following integrations available for existing products that can provide information about water usage:

- [Flo](/integrations/flo)
- [Flume](/integrations/flume)
- [HomeWizard Energy](/integrations/homewizard)

If you have a smart water meter that is wirelessly connected to your electricity meter, the following integration could be of help:

> - [P1 Monitor](/integrations/p1_monitor) 

Reviewer 2: P1 Monitor uses a simple pulse meter coupled to GPIO pins, so I think it falls more into the DIY category than something ready-made and wireless?

Reviewer 3: Klaas is correct. Docs mention soldering:

https://www.ztatz.nl/p1-monitor-watermeter/

Author: I've removed the section. Added the P1 Monitor to the DIY paragraph and removed Toon. Toon is almost not used and would only work for a very very small percentage of Dutch users that have a smart water meter (which isn't rolled out anymore at this point).
